Near real-time clients review (#7025)
Particular/docs.particular.net: samples/near-realtime-clients/sample.md

---

> [!NOTE]

> > SignalR can be used in many different ways. For general guidance, check out the official [SignalR tutorials](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/tutorials/signalr?tabs=visual-studio&view=aspnetcore-6.0) and [SignalR samples](https://github.com/aspnet/SignalR-samples). This guide specifically focuses on how to relay NServiceBus events to SignalR clients.

Reviewer: **Suggestion**: I think this note will make more sense if we put it before 'Project structure'

Author: I personally like it feels like metadata about the document as a whole?

Reviewer: My problem is that we start talking about SignalR on the note, and then we don't mention it until the last paragraph of the intro, so it feels disjointed

Author: Oops, seeing your note after the merge. I see what you mean, moved: https://github.com/Particular/docs.particular.net/commit/df710245b4138dce5b298b1ac2d5b1f9b591984e

For "near real-time" [occasionally-connected](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Occasionally_connected_computing) clients, messages are only useful for a short period of time. A classic example is stock ticker updates, where the latest prices matter, but old ones quickly become irrelevant.

> One of the key features of message queuing is the ability for the receiving endpoints to maintain service even when offline. Messages remain in the queue for processing when the system comes back online. However, while this feature is critical for some systems, the long lasting, durable nature of message queuing can result in a backlog of messages that are no longer relevant for occasionally-connected ones. If the client is disconnected long enough, it can result in queue quotas being exceeded. This can ultimately result in exceptions on the message sender and possibly impact other parts of the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the key features of message queuing is the ability for the receiving endpoints to maintain service even when offline. Messages remain in the queue for processing when the system comes back online. However, while this feature is critical for some systems, the long lasting, durable nature of message queuing can result in a backlog of messages that are no longer relevant for occasionally-connected ones. If the client is disconnected long enough, it can result in queue quotas being exceeded, which in turn can generate exceptions on the message sender and possibly impact other parts of the system.
```

One way to prevent this is to [unsubscribe](/nservicebus/messaging/publish-subscribe/controlling-what-is-subscribed.md#manually-subscribing-to-a-message) when shutting down. However, this approach is unreliable since a crash could prevent the unsubscribe from happening.

A better solution is to avoid implementing each client as an NServiceBus endpoint. Instead, use a push-based technology like [SignalR](https://signalr.net/) to only send updates when clients are connected.

This sample demonstrates how to use a SignalR server that also acts as an NServiceBus endpoint, to push subscribed NServiceBus events to any connected SignalR clients.

> ## Project structure

Reviewer: **Suggestion:** I think this should be Solution structure
```suggestion
## Solution structure
```

Before running the sample, review the solution structure, the projects, and the classes.

> - `Publisher` project: command-line application that hosts an instance of NServiceBus.
> - `ClientHub` project: command-line application that hosts an instance of NServiceBus and a SignalR server.
> - `Client` project: command-line application that hosts a SignalR client.

Reviewer: **Suggestion:** Maybe this is better? I'm not convinced 
```suggestion
Projects in the solution:
- `Publisher`: command-line application that hosts an instance of NServiceBus.
- `ClientHub`: command-line application that hosts an instance of NServiceBus and a SignalR server.
- `Client`: command-line application that hosts a SignalR client.
```

> 

Reviewer: **Suggestion:** According to the section below, the list is missing the `StockEvents` project.

## Sharing message types with SignalR

The `StockEvents` project contains the definition of a message class that is shared with both NServiceBus endpoints, the SignalR hub, and the SignalR client. Open `StockTick` to see the message that will be published by this sample. Note that this event is defined using [unobtrusive mode message conventions](/nservicebus/messaging/unobtrusive-mode.md), allowing the `Client` project, which only uses SignalR, to reference the message type without requiring a reference to NServiceBus.

snippet: MessageConventionsForNonNSB

> ## Hosting SignalR with NServiceBus
> 
> The sample shows how to host a self-hosted SignalR server side-by-side with an NServiceBus endpoint.
> 

Reviewer: **Suggestion:** I think we can delete this section, as it is very similar to line 23
```suggestion
```
